DATABASE:
1) A database is an organized collection of data stored in a computer system and usually controlled by a database management system (DBMS).
The data in common databases is modeled in tables, making querying and processing efficient. Structured query language (SQL) is commonly used
for data querying and writing.

2) The Database is an essential part of our life. We encounter several activities that involve our interaction with databases, for example in
the bank, in the railway station, 
in school, in a grocery store, etc. These are the instances where we need to store a large amount of data in one place and fetch these data easily. 

DATA :
Data is statically raw and unprocessed information. For example – name, class, marks, etc. In computer language, a piece of information that can be
translated into a form for efficient movement and processing is called data. Data is interchangeable information.

DBMS:
A Database Management System (DBMS) is a software system that is designed to manage and organize data in a structured manner.
It allows users to create, modify, and query a database, as well as manage the security and access controls for that database.
DBMS provides an environment to store and retrieve data in convenient and efficient manner.

Key Features of DBMS
A) Data modeling: A DBMS provides tools for creating and modifying data models, which define the structure and relationships of the data in a
database.
B) Data storage and retrieval: A DBMS is responsible for storing and retrieving data from the database, and can provide various methods for
searching and querying the data.
C) Concurrency control: A DBMS provides mechanisms for controlling concurrent access to the database, to ensure that multiple users can access
the data without conflicting with each other.
D) Data integrity and security: A DBMS provides tools for enforcing data integrity and security constraints, such as constraints on the values of 
data and access controls that restrict who can access the data.
E) Backup and recovery: A DBMS provides mechanisms for backing up and recovering the data in the event of a system failure.
F) DBMS can be classified into two types: Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) and Non-Relational Database Management System 
(NoSQL or Non-SQL)
G) RDBMS: Data is organized in the form of tables and each table has a set of rows and columns. The data are related to each other through
primary and foreign keys.
H) NoSQL: Data is organized in the form of key-value pairs, documents, graphs, or column-based. These are designed to handle large-scale,
high-performance scenarios.

Types of DBMS:

1) Relational Database Management System (RDBMS): Data is organized into tables (relations) with rows and columns, and the relationships between 
the data are managed through primary and foreign keys. SQL (Structured Query Language) is used to query and manipulate the data.
2) NoSQL DBMS: Designed for high-performance scenarios and large-scale data, NoSQL databases store data in various non-relational formats such as 
key-value pairs, documents, graphs, or columns.
3) Object-Oriented DBMS (OODBMS): Stores data as objects, similar to those used in object-oriented programming, allowing for complex data
representations and relationships

Database Languages:
1) Data Definition Language (DDL)
DDL is the short name for Data Definition Language, which deals with database schemas and descriptions, of how the data should reside in the database.

CREATE: to create a database and its objects like (table, index, views, store procedure, function, and triggers)
ALTER: alters the structure of the existing database
DROP: delete objects from the database
TRUNCATE: remove all records from a table, including all spaces allocated for the records are removed
COMMENT: add comments to the data dictionary
RENAME: rename an object

2) Data Manipulation Language (DML)
DML is the short name for Data Manipulation Language which deals with data manipulation and includes most common SQL statements such SELECT,
INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, etc., and it is used to store, modify, retrieve, delete and update data in a database. Data query language(DQL) is the
subset of “Data Manipulation Language”. The most common command of DQL is SELECT statement. SELECT statement help on retrieving the data from the
table without changing anything in the table.

SELECT: retrieve data from a database
INSERT: insert data into a table
UPDATE: updates existing data within a table
DELETE: Delete all records from a database table
MERGE: UPSERT operation (insert or update)
CALL: call a PL/SQL or Java subprogram
EXPLAIN PLAN: interpretation of the data access path
LOCK TABLE: concurrency Control

3) Data Control Language (DCL)
DCL is short for Data Control Language which acts as an access specifier to the database.(basically to grant and revoke permissions to users in the
database

GRANT: grant permissions to the user for running DML(SELECT, INSERT, DELETE,…) commands on the table
REVOKE: revoke permissions to the user for running DML(SELECT, INSERT, DELETE,…) command on the specified table

5) Transactional Control Language (TCL)
TCL is short for Transactional Control Language which acts as an manager for all types of transactional data and all transactions. Some of the
command of TCL are

Roll Back: Used to cancel  or Undo changes made in the database 
Commit: It is used to apply or save changes in the database
Save Point: It is used to save the data on the temporary basis in the database

Data Query Language (DQL)
Data query language(DQL) is the subset of “Data Manipulation Language”. The most common command of DQL is 1the SELECT statement. 
SELECT statement helps us in retrieving the data from the table without changing anything or modifying the table. 
DQL is very important for retrieval of essential data from a database.

CREATE DATABASE in SQL
The CREATE DATABASE query in SQL is used to create a new database in the database management system. It is also used in MySQL and other 
relational database management systems (RDBMS) to create databases.

Syntax:-
The syntax to use the CREATE DATABASE command in SQL is:
CREATE DATABASE database_name;
